An img, this is a self closing tag,
it's our void tag.
And it's an image, right?
It makes sense, you don't have
anything inside of an image.
An image is in and of itself enough,
it's a one atomic unit that
cannot be broken apart.
So yeah,
we'll get to that in just a second.
So you give an image a source, right, src.
And it'll look something like this,
img src =, this will be some sort of
URL pointing to a picture that's being
hosted somewhere on the Internet.
And so every image needs a source and
it also needs an alt, A-L-T.
Going back to screen readers, obviously,
if you're blind you can't see images.
However, it can be really important
what's in those images for
someone to understand your website, right?
If you're having,
this is an arrow pointing at something or
it has a other meaning to it.
So you give it an alt, so
that when the screen reader arrives to
this particular image,
it has some text to say about it, right?
So let's actually just copy and
paste this up here.
Come back up here.
So you have this little
puppy picture that pops up,
but let's say this image broke, right?
It actually will show them the alt text,
for whatever reason,
if that image got moved or
broken or something like that.
So it also doubles as being a backup for
it as well.
But also if someone's using a screen
reader and they tap onto this and
it goes,
they obviously can't see the picture.
It'll say, this is a picture
of an adorable puppy, right?
So it's important to have
descriptive alts as well.
Every image tag should have an alt,
100% of the time, always.
And again,
that's being a responsible citizen,
that's recognizing that
the Internet is for everyone.
So what is a subtle difference
that often people have
a hard time with when they're
learning web development?
Is you can actually put
images on a page with CSS.
So you don't have to use an img tag,
you can put it on there via CSS.
The only time that you wanna do this
if it's purely decorative, right?
Like if you have a background image on
your page, right, that purely serves just
to make your page look nice and
it's purely for aesthetic value,
then that's when you're going to
use CSS to put the image on there.
But if it's for
something like real content, right?
Maybe we have an adoption website for
puppies, and
we're putting that picture
of the puppy up there.
That should be an img tag,
because it needs an alt tag, right?
So the CSS version can't do alt text.
So that's why it's really important
that you need to use those img tags for
everything that's not decorative.
If it's purely decorative,
then you can use CSS for it.
Does that make sense?
Okay.
The other thing that's useful is for
search engines,
search engines will also
read alt tags as well.
Inputs, we were just talking about inputs,
so this is an input right here.
It's something that people can type into
for like, if you're filling out a form,
you wanna put first name and last name,
you would use an input tag for this.
There are many different
flavors of input tags.
If you don't put anything, it just
assumes that you need a text input,
which is the most common one, I would say.
But there's also a color picker,
there's a number input,
there's a date input,
there's a time input, file uploader.
There's a bunch of them,
more that I'm not thinking of as well.
So, I haven't read the numbers,
dates, colors, check boxes,
radio buttons, a bunch of stuff like that.
We'll see more of that in the next
page as well, it looks like this.
Text area, so what happens if you
had to write an essay, right?
You don't wanna write an essay in this,
that would be terribly annoying, right?
So it'd be useful if you
could do something like this.
Textarea/textarea, right?
So I'm sure you've seen all
these on websites, right.
They're like this big and you can
write a bunch of stuff in them, and
then you can hit Enter and
such, that is a text area.
So it's a larger input that accommodates
larger bodies of text in them.
Now something you might point out
to me at this point in time and
you'd be absolutely right, is,
why is that not a self closing tag, right?
Inputs are self closing tags,
so why aren't text areas?
There's not a good reason, they just
aren't, they're old is the real reason.
Text areas have been
around long enough that
they were not made self-closing tags.
Yeah, I mean,
if you put something in here,
it'll like seed that as like
the beginning value, right?
So you can put things in there,
that would be like the initial value
of whatever's in the text area.
You don't end up using text areas very
often, but it's good to know about them,
they do exist.
If you need long form text from a user.
Inputs, text areas, select,
select an option specifically.
So like a drop down, right?
I'm sure most of you have done select
the state that you're from, and
you click on it, and you find Minnesota.
And then you click on that, right,
that drop down is a select, right?
And all the individual options in it are,
you guessed it, options.
So it will look like something like this,
select, option,
then you have Seattle,
Portland, San Francisco, etc.
And we'll get more into that later,
but they have various values as well.
And that'll be the value that's actually
sent back to your server if they
select that.
So if I select Seattle, it's gonna
send back this version of Seattle.
So the next one is a form.
A form is for if you have like a large
form that someone's filling out that has
first name, last name, state address, etc,
etc, that has a bunch of different inputs.
You wanna gather that
up all into one place,
you use a form as kinda like
the container for all of that.
There's more to forms, we're not
necessarily gonna get into that today,
because there's a lot of stuff
that you can get into with forms.
And it's not particularly interesting,
in my opinion.
[LAUGH] But yeah, forms are for
grouping together inputs,
text areas, selects, those kind of things.
Tables, so
tables get a really bad rap in HTML
because back before we had
useful amounts of CSS,
we used to layout websites using tables.
Imagine trying to like paint
a picture using Excel, and
that's what writing websites
using tables felt like.
We're way beyond that now,
we haven't used tables to lay out
things in a decade, I would say.
But people still have this aversion
to using tables because they're so
traumatized by back then.
You should still use tables if
you have a table of data, right?
If you have something that you would
use Excel to display, then use a table,
that's totally fine.
If you're trying to lay out a website,
do not use tables.
[LAUGH] So a table is like
the container for the entire table.
A tr is one row and a td is one cell.
So right here, I have a table.
In fact, we can just copy and
paste that and see what it looks like.
Let's go back up here.
Right, so I have (0,0),
(1,0), (0,1), and (1,1).
And let's just put these on different rows
so you can kinda see what that looks like.
Okay, so
the table contains the whole table, right?
One tr is one row, right?
Table row follows.
And then you have one td is one
individual cell here, right?
So I have (0,0), which is there,
and then (1,0) is here.
Then you have another tr,
so it's the next row down,
(0,1) (1,1) right there, make sense?
So something that you'll kind of find
just with HTML and CSS in general is we
start at the top left and we work our
way right and then we go down, right?
So the first one we put on
here is the top left one,
that's also how a bunch
of stuff works in CSS.
So just get used to usually that the point
(0,0) is gonna be the top left of whatever
you're working with.
So if I were to put, Let's say
another table row in here,
it would go underneath it, right?
Sure enough, it does.
Rather it's this one is 2, 0 and
1 and 2, anyway.
And then if I put another td right here,
Right there, yeah, make sense?
Cool.
So that's tables, and yeah,
so there are many more tags.
And I didn't even necessarily
cover all of the useful ones.
There are things like nav and header,
and footer, things like that.
And article, and section, and
a bunch of stuff like that.
So for example, you have something that's
like article, it's something that you
put an article inside of,
it's very descriptive what's inside of it.
It acts just a div,
like the way it mechanically works,
it works exactly like a div would work.
But what's nice about it is if someone's
scraping your website like Google,
they'll instantly knows,
this is an article.
This is something I can throw into
where I would display an article.
So it's useful for
machines that are reading it.
So if you use useful HTML, machines
that are consuming it will know a little
bit more about your website, and will
be able to rank you higher in Google or
be able to scrape your website
in interesting and useful ways.
And also screen readers will be
able to read it more readily.
So there's a bunch more,
this will get you started, but
you'll be learning HTML tags,
probably for at least a little bit.
Any questions about anything
that we've talked about so far?
Please?
>> So when I did the button in two
different browsers, it looks different.
A, is that something that you
ever have to be aware of?
And B, is my hypothesis
correct that it's sort of like
emoji between like Android and
Apple kind of thing?
>> Yep, the answer is yes
to both of your questions.
[LAUGH] So it's something you should
be aware of, usually that's okay.
But when you use CSS, you can make them
look the same across operating systems and
browsers, and all that kind of thing.
But yes, it will look different by
default if you don't change anything.
You will almost always change something.
What's the other question?
>> And then, is it just the difference in
the browser the same as an emoji looks
different between Android and
an iPhone for example?
>> Yes, it's the browser
that's making those different.
It's the browsers more or
less trying to have convergent
looking things, but
a lot of it is up left up to them.
Google and Chrome tends to make
things look more like Google, right?
So it's more like material design, it's
more flat, those kind of things, whereas
Firefox is has its own way of thinking,
Edge has its own way of thinking.
So it's those kind of details
are left up to the browser vendors.
It's a good question.
In fact, that's actually one of the fun
slash horrifying parts of being a front
end developer is making things
look the same across browsers.
That's something that you constantly,
constantly battle with is,
this works in Firefox, but
it doesn't work in Chrome.
How many times have you said that?
I've said that literally yesterday,
if we're being honest.
[LAUGH] I literally had to fix
something for that very reason.
So it's one of the common problems that
we deal with is cross browser problems,
and the worst by far these
days is mobile Safari.
I spend so much time fixing things for
mobile Safari.
It used to be Internet Explorer.
But luckily, not many people use
Internet Explorer anymore, so.
Good questions.